In this exercise, we are going
to start all the components for
Quarkus Conference application and
then familiarize ourselves
with the front-end
and of course, have a look at what
components we needed to start and how.
We'll start with the lab
deploy-microservicesapp start script
which checks that OpenShift
is up and running,
although it doesn't really need to, we
do not use OpenShift
for it
and it downloads some exercise files.
Now the first thing we're going to do is start
a Postgres container. In
a new terminal window,
we are going to simply run a new
postgresql-conference container,
listening on port 5432,
providing it some configuration
environment variables
and using the image from registry.access.
redhat.com/rhscl/
postgresql-10-rhel7 with a tag of one.
Generally you will do
it in the background.
I have included the
container logs just to show
you that the container is
literally initializing itself
and then it comes up.
As I said, this is the requirement
for the session service.
Another external database which is used
by the voting services, the MongoDB.
We're going to call it vdb
the container that is,
we're going to listen on port 27017
and the image we are going to use is from
quay.io/bitnami/mongodb with
the tag of 4.0.
So when the image is downloaded,
the MongoDB container starts up,
deploys MongoDB, and restarts
itself to begin serving.
The next one is our very
first microservice.
It's the speaker service.
So we're going to go and change
our directory to DO378/
labs/deploy-microservicesapp/quarkus-conference/
microservice-speaker and which
is simply going to run
Quarkus in development mode.
It will download some additional
libraries before it starts up
and ultimately we are going to see it
report that it is listening
for debug on port 5005,
and it can also see it initialize
the Hibernate backend,
that is the H2 database,
and load some initial data from
the import sql file. Feel free
to browse the source code,
open these applications in VSCodium,
have a look around to
see how they're configured.
They especially pay attention to
application properties files,
because you will have seen
that we didn't really
provide any additional parameters
to our Quarkus containers,
Quarkus engines.
We simply told them to start
in development mode
yet there are no port
conflicts or any of the sort.
So this one is configured out of the box
to listen on localhost port 8082.
And when it starts up,
we can move on to the next component,
which is the schedule application.
Again telling it to simply run
as quarkus:dev, so in dev mode,
what you may see, when this
particular instance starts
up is that it complains about
the debug port being in use.
This is not a fatal error,
it's simply a warning, telling
that the bugging of this
application will not be possible.
But it still works without a problem,
still loads the application.
And as you can see here,
it's listening on port 8083.
In the next step, we're going to
also start the microservice-session
application, this time avoiding port
conflicts by telling it to listen for
incoming debug connections on
port 5007, right?
It too downloads a number
of Maven dependencies
and then starts itself.
This time not complaining about
a port conflict for debugging.
It is configured to
listen on port 8081
and if you recall, the session application
is one of those that
use a backend database.
That is
why you can see these SQL exception
helpers warning about the fact that
certain tables do not exist and so on.
The fourth component is
the voting application.
It's going to be using
the debug port 5008.
And again, as it starts up,
it connects to the MongoDB container
and again here you can see some
reports about Mongo clusters having
being created and it listens on port 8084.
Lastly, what we will do is we are going
to start up our pre-built
front end container.
It's available from quay.io/redhat
training/quarkus-onference-frontend with the tag of latest.
We will expose it on port 8080
and once it starts up,
it reports that it is up,
and accepting connections.
We can open it in the browser.
So if we look at the Schedules,
for example, just click
an example Schedule.
We can see the Date it is
being held on, the Venue
it is at and the sessions
and the speakers that are available.
These are all links to
the respective microservices,
the Sessions microservice,
the Speaker microservice,
which you can see in the
bottom left-hand corner,
if you look at the URL or
if you click on it and
observe the URL in the browser's URL tab.
We can have a look at the Speakers that are here.
If we click one, we can see their
Organization, Twitter handle, Biography
and the link to Sessions gives us
access to session information,
which by the way is also
an entry point to the vote application. It doesn't have a separate user interface.
The assumption is whoever
had attended a Session,
will be able to return
to that Sessions page and
click on one of the stars
next to the Session.
Because this requires authentication,
so it's not going to work
until we have an authorization
application running.
Right!
That's it for our quick overview.
Returning back to the terminal windows,
we can actually do a podman stop
-a to terminate all
the running containers.
Followed by podman rm -a
to remove all the containers remains.
There we go. And then run lab deploy-
microservicesapp finish script,
which will clean everything up.
And of course, you can also shut
down the running Quarkus instances.
This concludes the initial
exercise of this chapter.
Join us in the next video, where we're
going to have a look at how to deploy
microservices in Red Hat OpenShift
Container Platform. See you there.